---
date: 2025-03-06
---

A <u>commutative ring</u> $R$ is a set with two laws of composition, $+$ and $\times$ obeying the following properties
- $R^+$ is an abelian group with identity $0$
- $R^\times$ is a commutative monoid
- <u>distribution</u>, $\forall a,b,c\in R$, $(a+b)c=ac+bc$

A <u>unit</u> is an element of a ring with a multiplicative inverse.

A <u>subring</u> is a subset of a ring closed under the usual operations with the element $1$.

## Polynomials

A <u>polynomial</u> of $x$ with coefficients in $R$ is a finite linear combination of powers of the variable
$$
f(x)=a_nx^n+a_{n-1}x^{n-1}+\cdots+a_1x+a_0
$$

The set of these form the <u>polynomial ring</u> $R[x]$

The <u>monomials</u> $x^i$ are independent, thus $f,g\in R[x]$ iff every coefficient is equal.

The <u>degree</u> of $f$, $\deg f$ is the largest $n$ such that the $a_n\ne 0$. A polynomial is <u>monic</u> if the leading coefficient $a_n$ is $1$

<u>Division</u> is performed with a monic polynomial $f\in R[x]$, where for all $g\in R[x]$, there are unique $q,r\in R[x]$ such that $g=fq+r$ where $r=0$ or $\deg r<\deg f$

A ring with multiple variables is denoted $R[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$

## Ideals
A <u>ring homomorphism</u> is a map $\varphi:R\to R'$ such that
$$
\varphi(1_R)=1_{R'}\qquad
\varphi(a+b)=\varphi(a)+\varphi(b)\qquad
\varphi(ab)=\varphi(a)\varphi(b)
$$

If $\varphi$ is an isomorphism, then $R\cong R'$ are <u>isomorphic</u>

<u>Substitution principle</u> For $\alpha\in R'$, there is unique homomorphism $\Phi:R[x]\to R'$ that sends $x\leadsto\alpha$, and similarly for multivariate polynomial rings. Using this, we can also construct $\Phi:R[x]\to R'[x]$ from $\varphi$.

An <u>ideal</u> $I$ of a ring $R$ is a nonempty subset of $R$ that is closed under addition, and $\forall s\in I,r\in R$, $rs\in I$

The <u>unit ideal</u> is $(1)$ or the ring itself. The <u>zero ideal</u> is $(0)$. An ideal is <u>proper</u> if it not unit or zero. It is <u>principal</u> if it can be generated by a single element.

## Quotients
Let $f:R\to R'$ be a ring homomorphism with kernel $K$. Let $I$ be an ideal contained in $K$, and $\pi:R\to R/I$ the canonical map. Then there is a unique homomorphism $\overline f:R/I\to R'$ such that $\overline f\pi=f$. (<u>First Isomorphism Theorem</u>) Furthermore, if $f$ is surjective and $I=K$, $\overline f$ is an isomorphism.

<u>Correspondence Theorem</u> Let $\varphi:R\to\mathcal R$ be a surjective ring homomorphism with kernel $K$. There is a bijective correspondence between the ideals of $\mathcal R$ and ideals of $R$ containing $K$. $I\subset R$ goes to $\varphi(I)$, and $\mathcal I\subset\mathcal R$ goes to $\varphi^{-1}(\mathcal I)$.

Adjoining $\alpha$ to $R$ yields the ring $R[\alpha]=\{r_n\alpha^n+\ldots+r_1\alpha+r_0|r_i\in R\}$. This can be constructed by taking a polynomial $f(x)$ with root $\alpha$, and considering $R[x]/(f)$.

## Products
The <u>product</u> of rings $R,R'$ is given by $R\times R'$ with operations defined
$$
(x,x')+(y,y')=(x+y,x'+y')\qquad
(x,x')(y,y')=(xy,x'y')
$$

An <u>idempotent</u> is an element $e\in S$ in a ring $S$ such that $e^2=e$. Then $e'=1-e$ is also an idempotent, where $e+e'=1$ and $ee'=0$. Moreover, $S\cong eS\times e'S$

## Fractions
Let $R$ be an integral domain. Consider <u>fractions</u> as elements of the form $a/b$, where $a,b\in R$ and $b\ne 0$. Then $\frac ab\sim\frac cd$ if $ad=bc$, with operations defined $\frac ab+\frac cd=\frac{ad+bc}{bd}$ and $\frac ab\frac cd=\frac{ac}{bd}$. Define the <u>fraction field</u> $F(R)$ as the equivalence classes of fractions of elements of $R$.

If $R$ is a subring of a field, $a/b\to ab^{-1}$ embeds $F(R)$ as a subfield.

## Maximal Ideals
A <u>maximal ideal</u> of $R$ is some that is not equal to $R$, but not contained in any other ideal.

A surjective ring homomorphism to a field has a maximal ideal for its kernel.

The maximal ideals of $\mathbb Z$ are $\mathbb pZ$ where $p$ is a prime.

The maximal ideals of $F[x]$ are principal ideals generated by monic irreducible polynomials.

<u>Hilbert's Nullstellensatz</u> The maximal ideals of the polynomial ring $\mathbb C[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$ correspond to points in $\mathbb C^n$, where $a=(a_1,\ldots,a_n)$ correspond to kernel $M_a$ of map that sends $x_i\leadsto a_i$, generated by polynomials $x_i-a_i$.