Let $U_n$ be the group of $n\times n$ unitary matrices. The Pauli group $P=\langle I,X,Y,Z\rangle\subset U_n$ is generated with the following complex matrices.
$$
I=\bmatrix{1&0\\0&1}\qquad
X=\bmatrix{0&1\\1&0}\qquad
Y=\bmatrix{0&-i\\i&0}\qquad
Z=\bmatrix{1&0\\0&-1}
$$

The $n$-qubit Pauli group is then given with the $n$-fold tensor product $P_n=\bigotimes_{i=1}^nP$. We define the <u>Clifford group</u> as the normalizer of $P_n$ in the group of unitaries.
$$
C_n=\{V\in U_{2^n}:VP_nV^\dagger=P_n\}
$$

In quantum computing, we do not care about the global phase, and implicitly work with $C_n/U(1)$, quotienting out the phase.

# Generators
>[!info]
>The $n$-qubit Clifford group $C_n$ is generated by the following gates.
>$$
>H=\frac1{\sqrt2}\bmatrix{1&1\\1&-1}\qquad
>S=\bmatrix{1&0\\0&i}\qquad
>CX=\bmatrix{1&0&0&0\\0&1&0&0\\0&0&0&1\\0&0&1&0}
>$$

<u>This can be proven by decomposing the group of $2n\times2n$ into these elements</u>

# Conjugation
## Pauli
The conjugation action of $C_n$ on $P_n$ can be useful to analyze and simplify quantum circuits. The nonidentity elements of $P$ anti-commute, so conjugation adds a $-1$ phase.
$$
XYX=-YX^2=-Y\qquad
XZX=-ZX^2=-Z
$$

## Hadamard
The Hadamard gate send $\ket0\mapsto\ket0+\ket1$ and $\ket1\mapsto\ket0-\ket1$ (up to normalization). Studying the action of $H$ on these basis states, we can see that $HXH=Z$. Therefore $HZH=X$ and $HYH=-Y$. Intuitively, conjugating by $H$ swaps $X$ and $Z$.
$$
\begin{aligned}
&HXH\ket0=HX\ket+=H\ket+=\ket0&Z\ket0=\ket0\\
&HXH\ket1=HX\ket-=-H\ket-=-\ket1&Z\ket1=-\ket1
\end{aligned}
$$

## Phase
The phase gate is a half $Z$ gate, as $S^2=Z$. From this we deduce $S$ and $Z$ commute. Direct computation shows that $SXS^\dagger=Y$ and $SYS^\dagger=-X$. Similar to Hadamard, $S$ swaps $Y$ and $X$ gates, but adds a phase.
$$
SXS^\dagger=
\bmatrix{1&0\\0&i}
\bmatrix{0&1\\1&0}
\bmatrix{1&0\\0&-i}
=\bmatrix{0&-i\\i&0}
\qquad
SYS^\dagger=
\bmatrix{1&0\\0&i}
\bmatrix{0&-i\\i&0}
\bmatrix{1&0\\0&-i}
=\bmatrix{0&-1\\-1&0}
$$

## Controlled X
Some algebra shows that $CX$ acts on the Pauli group in the following manner
$$
\begin{aligned}
CX(X\otimes I)CX=X\otimes X&\qquad
CX(Z\otimes I)CX=Z\otimes I\\
CX(I\otimes X)CX=I\otimes X&\qquad
CX(I\otimes Z)CX=Z\otimes Z
\end{aligned}
$$

## Controlled Z
The controlled $Z$ gate is defined by $CZ=(I\otimes H)CX(I\otimes H)$. Combining the Hadamard and controlled $X$ conjugation actions, we obtain conjugation action of $CZ$.
$$
\begin{aligned}
CZ(X\otimes I)CZ=X\otimes Z&\qquad
CZ(Z\otimes I)CZ=Z\otimes I\\
CZ(I\otimes X)CZ=Z\otimes X&\qquad
CZ(I\otimes Z)CZ=I\otimes Z
\end{aligned}
$$

Note that $CZ$ only applies phase the basis vector $\ket{11}$, thus it is symmetric on control and target. This implies that $(H\otimes H)CX(H\otimes H)$ is also a $CX$, but with control and target swapped.